This is the source tree for my submission to the [Defcon18 Badge
Hacking contest][1].

************************************************************************

Description
===========

My idea was to implement [web of trust][2] software for the badge,
playing up on the theme of semi-anonymity that we encounter at Defcon.
When badges are connected together, the user can indicate that they
are friends with the other badge holder so that their own badge
"memorizes" the remote badge.  If a user is just meeting a person for
the first time, they can connect the badges and ask "how many degrees
of separation are there between us?"

To accomplish this, each badge has to hold a snapshot of the social
network of con attendees, as viewed from perspective of the badge owner.
The two functions of the badge can then be described as:
* query - is the other person anywhere in my social network?
* add - add the other person to my social network as being attached to me.


Implementation Overview
=======================

In practice, there are a few problems that arise:
1. how do you tell the badges apart?
2. the badge only has 2K of memory available, so it's not possible
   to actually memorize the badges you meet (and all the badges that
   each of those badges has met -- necessary for calculating the
   degrees of separation).
3. the badges cannot directly connect to each other via cable
   without some further hacking.

Telling the badges apart is relatively easy: scan through the stack
memory when the badge first starts up (and thus, before the memory has
been initialized), and use that as a seed to a random number
generator.  Then assign a 32-bit random integer to be the ID of the
badge.

To solve the memory problem, I resorted to using [bloom filters][3],
which are a variant of hashing your input to the size of a (small)
fixed length array.  What is great about them is that you can figure
out how long your array should be given the size of your input
population and the probability you are willing to accept for a
collision.

Connecting the badges together is definitely doable, as demonstrated
by last year's badge which used I2C for inter-badge communication.
I didn't realize this problem with my idea until Saturday night,
and I didn't think that there would be time for me to figure out the
I2C stuff unless I pulled an all-nighter.  Instead, I decided to write
a small OSX / Linux program which scanned the /dev directory for
serial devices and then would shuffle the data between them as if they
were directly connected.  This had the added benefit of allowing me to
snoop on the communication to help with debugging.

Usage
=====

The badge source code is setup as Joe gave it to us.  You open
the file "User Code\DC18.cww" in Code Warrior, and compile it.
This generates a new executable in S-record format at
"User Code\support\sdm_pROM_xRAM.elf.S", which you upload to the badge.
(To upload an image to the badge, you put it into "bootloader" mode
by holding down both buttons and then plugging in a USB cable.
This assumes that you've removed the battery so that the device
is initially off until powered by the cable.)

In the "support" directory is the 'nullmodem' program that I use
to shuffle data between badges.  Once you have loaded the image on
multiple badges, move to a Linux machine and plug in two badges.
Start the 'nullmodem' program.

To get to "Web of Trust" mode from the DEFCON main screen, press
the top button.  The screen will refresh and show you the hex ID
of the badge.  Once in "Web of Trust" mode, there are two commands
you can issue:

* query - press the bottom button to have the badge query the other
  badge of its ID.  The screen will update with how many degrees of
  separation there are to the remote badge, or 'X' to indicate that
  the remote badge isn't in the social network.  (Note, a value like
  "13" actually means degrees 1 and 3.  The software only goes up to
  four degrees of separation.)
* add - press both buttons at once to add the remote badge into
  the social network.

Testing
=======

Here is a description of my test, which might give a sense of
how the software works:

There are two badges, which I call "Human" and "Newb".  I connect
them together and enter "Web of Trust" mode on Human.
I do a 'query' by pressing the bottom button, and get a reply
of "X" -- the Newb badge has never been seen before.
I now press both buttons to 'add' Newb to the social network
of Human.  The badges are now in this state:

* Newb: empty social network
* Human: Newb (at degree 1)

Doing another query verifies that Newb is one degree away in
Human's social graph.  I then repeat the process for Newb, so
that the badges are now in this state:

* Human: Newb (at degree 1)
* Newb: Human (at degree 1), Newb (at degree 2)

Notice that Newb is two degrees away from himself, via Human.
First, the cool part is that when you 'add' someone to your
social network, you also import their whole social network.
It feels a little odd that 'Newb' is in the graph twice,
but it's a short-coming of the memory limitations we have.

Now suppose Human and Newb go their separate ways, and
Human then runs into his old friend Pirate.  They decide
to acknowledge each other in their social graphs, with
Human adding Pirate first:

* Human: Newb (at degree 1), Pirate (at degree 1)
* Pirate: empty social network
  and then Pirate adding Huma:
* Human: Newb (at degree 1), Pirate (at degree 1)
* Pirate: Human (at degree 1), Newb (at degree 2), Pirate (at degree 2)

At a party that evening, Pirate and Newb meet each other.
Pirate wants to know how freely he can speak, so they connect
their badges and Pirate runs a query of his social graph.
He learns that Newb is only two degrees away, so he shares stories
of his more notorious capers with Newb.  (Notice that if Newb does
a query of his social network that Pirate won't show up, because
Pirate didn't get added to Human's social network until later.)


Notes
=====

In the end, the inter-badge communication was probably the hardest
part of the whole system.  To make sure that everything was working
right, I added lots of debugging messages that I sent via USB so that
the 'nullmodem' program would print them out to the screen.  This
ended up causing problems because I would send data out faster than
it was being read by the other badge.

To fix this, I added a "command" mode.  When the user presses button
in the "Web of Trust" mode, the software sends a character ('>') to
the other badge indicating that it's about to send a bunch of data.
The remote badge acknowledges the command by sending a reply ('&'),
and then enters a tight loop that reads characters from the master
badge until the "end command" character ('<') is received.

Although there can be problems is you are pushing buttons on both
badges at the same time, the software is otherwise now very reliable
for me.



[1]: http://www.grandideastudio.com/portfolio/defcon-18-badge/	"DC18 Badge"
[2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_of_trust			"Web of Trust"
[3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloom_filter			"Bloom filter"
